well while Israel's war against Hamas
shows no sign of slowing many people are
already asking the question what will
happen when it's over most analysts
agree it's far too early to say but some
scenarios appear more likely than
others destruction death Israel's
pursuit of Hamas is leveling whole
neighborhoods in Gaza causing widespread
human suffering and laying waste to
infrastructure this satellite imagery
shows one area before and after Israel
started its bombardment and later ground
offensive the shooting will eventually
stop Israel says that after the war
there'll have to be a new security
regime for Gaza experts say three
scenarios are most likely the first
option tightened control Israel's
foreign minister has warned that gaza's
territory will decrease which could mean
wider so-called buffer zones before the
war areas in Gaza within a kilometer of
the Israeli border were nogo areas these
could be
expanded experts say that if the north
of the The Enclave is totally destroyed
it could remain
uninhabitable cut off like this gazans
would depend entirely on International
Aid to
survive option two would see the
Palestinian Authority which controls the
West Bank also take control of Gaza this
would unite Palestinians under a single
government which could also be part of
any future negotiations over Palestinian
sovereignty the third option would see
Arab states that have relations with
Israel take control along with the
Palestinian Authority the US has laid
down some red lines in response to
options discussed by Israeli politicians
and the International Community no uh
forcible displacement of Palestinians
from Gaza uh no use of Gaza as um a
platform for launching um terrorism or
other uh other attacks against uh
against Israel um no diminution in the
uh in the territory of Gaza and a
commitment to Palestinian Le governance
for uh for Gaza and and for the West
Bank a lot of NOS the other potential
broker of the United Nations has so far
not presented suggestions for a solution
leaving the future of Gaza
uncertain and for more on that topic
let's bring in Yosi melberg he's a he's
with the Royal Institute of
international Affairs also known as
chattam house uh in London now first
please please tell me about the day
after what will be the priorities in
rebuilding
Gaza good afternoon I think obviously we
need to look at what's left of Gaza
after you know the massive bombardment
of of Gaza the destruction there but no
doubt when you have hundreds of
thousands of people probably 700,000
people displac many many houses
destroyed Hospitals now under threat
schols so they they in the immediate
afterm there will need for a massive
humanitarian Aid just to ensure that
people have shelter people have food
sanitation H water and and and and the
rest this will be in the immediate
aftermath then also to ensure that
people have enjoy security and then
gradually moving into the rebuilding of
Gaza and and ensuring that also there is
governance who is who who is governing
Gaza you need you need some sort of
government assuming that Hamas won't be
to govern and Israel won't withdraw
until Hamas is is is there or possibly
govern the place there need to for for
alternative and then we have to look
into the interim and the long term in
the interim probably an international
some International mechanisms that we
look into into rebuilding Gaza
reconstruct Gaza but also build the
governance then and
eventually election and uniting the the
the Palestinian poity between the West
Bank and Gaza under the one wood now
Netanyahu says that Israel you mentioned
security and he said that Israel will
control the overall security of Gaza
after the war do you see Israel holding
on to that power for long afterwards or
who do you think should step in after
the
war obviously what netan said is very
vague what does mean overall control
does it mean presence within within Gaza
presence from the out outside you know
all the idea of the blockade was having
overall control but from the outside and
keeping it contained this failed and
collapsed within few hours on on on on
7th of October with
disastrous consequences so if he means
staying there then as as all occupation
they become entrenched within the
territory among 2.3 million people that
will see Israel as as an occupy and
hostile to it so it's very difficult to
see whether it's just element of
rhetoric there to ensure the Israeli
population that he is doing something or
there is an
actually a a a plan how to ensure
security for
Israel Vis A Gaza I think a real plan
will involve International forces there
at least for the interim time until we
are moving into some diplomatic effort
to resolve the Israel Palestinian
conflict now what about the Palestinian
authorities sounds plausible doesn't it
that they be given a chance to govern
Gaza well
eventually obviously the the the the PA
can't just enter into Gaza considering
how they left or were forced to live
back in
2007 and on the back of Israeli tanks
just enter and be implicated with with
the war in Gaza and what you know the
destruction left as a result of it so
again that's what the need for an
intering time the PA itself needs to go
through a form the the issue of
succession and the PA and the PLO and
finding new leadership as much as Israel
needs new a new leadership new
leadership for Gaza building alternative
political parties that would run will
run in the in the next elections
building the institutions themselves so
this is this is the process that we
should be outlined and start you know
immediately when there is a a ceasefire
and seeing new leadership emerging but
also new leadership that can think
beyond the conflict itself into a
resolution a peaceful
resolution now is this time as tragic as
everything is right now could it provide
a chance for a possible resolution of
the
conflict I think whenever you have such
deep crisis there is also great
opportunity because the one thing that
everyone realizes right now is the
current Arrangements don't work the end
even even worse conditions and by now
probably on both sides there are more
than 12 probably 13,000 people dead and
we saw the destruction and the trauma
that both societies are going through
and the shock with that and of course a
lot of trust if there was any trust
between them it's even been damag
further however if a new leadership that
actually learned the right lesson that
maintaining the conflict talking in this
elusive status quo doesn't work and
needs to go back to the root causes of
the conflict self-determination for both
recognition of the rights for of
Jerusalem is the capital of both deal
with the refugees issue allowing
Economic Development dealing with
settlements in in in in the West Bank
all those issues that make the the
Israel Palestine conf
with the support of the International
Community personally I think should be a
strong Regional element of that but
without the the United States and the
European Union relinquish their
responsibility because it affects their
interest too y see M there with the
international Affairs Think Tank chatam
house thank you very much for sharing
your expertise with
us thank you for having
me